-President Trump's former
and current lawyers
are causing problems for him
in the Russia investigation.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump has spent
the last few weeks
openly threatening his former
lawyer, Michael Cohen,
by demanding that
law-enforcement officials
investigate Cohen's
father-in-law.
Trump has been claiming
in interviews
that Cohen's father-in-law
did something illegal,
although he doesn't seem
to know many details.
-In order to get
his sentence reduced,
he says, "I have an idea.
I'll tell -- I'll give you some
information on the president."
Well, there is no information.
But he should give information,
maybe, on his father-in-law,
because that's the one
that people want to look at.
Because where does that money --
That's the money in the family.
And I guess he didn't want
to talk about his father-in-law.
He's trying to get
his sentence reduced.
-What is his
father-in-law's name?
-I don't know.
But you'll find out.
-You don't know?
You just said
he committed a crime,
but you don't know his name?
Is he Zorro?
"We don't have a name,
but he did carve a 'Z'
into the White House.
So...
[ Applause ]
We're, uh, keeping an eye out
for Zachs."
[ Laughter ]
Now, Cohen was supposed to
testify in public
to Congress next month
about his involvement
in plans to build a Trump Tower
in Moscow
during the 2016 campaign.
But today he postponed
that testimony
due to Trump's threats.
Trump was asked about
Cohen's decision
at the White House
this afternoon.
-He says he's been threatened
by you and Mr. Giuliani.
He and his family
have been threatened.
-No, I would say he's been
threatened by the truth.
He's only been threatened
by the truth.
-Yeah, he's threatened
You know, truth like
his father-in-law's name!
[ Laughter ]
I don't know if he's threatened
by the truth,
but at least he knows the truth.
If you were put under oath
in a courtroom
and a prosecutor asked you,
"What does the president do?"
you'd say...
-I don't know.
But you'll find out.
[ Laughter ]
Yeah.
You might remember
that just a few days ago,
a confusing saga unfolded
when BuzzFeed published
what seemed like
a blockbuster story
about that deal to build
the Trump Tower in Moscow.
And then Special Counsel
Robert Mueller's office
took the incredibly rare step
of issuing a public statement
claiming that the story
was inaccurate.
Well, BuzzFeed stood by
its initial report.
Trump slammed BuzzFeed
to the media broadly
but claimed he was actually sad
about the fact
that BuzzFeed supposedly
got the story wrong.
-I think that the BuzzFeed piece
was a disgrace to our country.
It was a disgrace to journalism.
And I think it's going to
take a long time
for the mainstream media
to recover its credibility.
It's lost
tremendous credibility.
And believe me, that hurts me.
It hurts me to say it.
-No, you are not
in the least bit upset
about the media's credibility.
You wake up every day
and tweet "fake news,"
and your favorite hobby
is yelling at reporters.
-You know what?
You've really had enough.
Hey, you've had enough.
Sit down. Sit down.
Quiet, quiet,
quiet, quiet, quiet.
Quiet.
Wait. Wait, wait.
That's enough.
Put down the mic.
-He's like a wrestler
on steroids.
He's going to show up
to his next press conference
in a leotard and put Jim Acosta
in a choke hold.
[ Laughter ]
Here's the thing about
the BuzzFeed story.
We're in this weird place
right now
where we keep waiting
for another smoking gun
when what we already know
is incredibly damning.
The president was
secretly pursuing
a business deal in Russia
while his aides were
secretly meeting with Russians
offering to help him win.
His campaign chairman was
sharing internal polling data
with a business associate
tied to Russian intelligence.
And the entire time,
they were all lying about it.
What are we waiting for?
We have enough.
It's like we're all cops
in a surveillance van
watching a drug deal go down
saying,
"Okay, they gave him the money.
And now they're giving them
the drugs.
And now they're all getting
in their cars and leaving.
And now we wait."
[ Laughter ]
The reason why --
[ Applause ]
The reason why it feels like
we're not getting traction
on the stuff we already know
is that our political system
is incapable of processing it
in the way a healthy
political system should.
Normally, if the president
lies repeatedly
about his entanglements
with a foreign adversary
or crimes committed by his
subordinates at his direction,
that would prompt hearings,
investigations,
universal condemnation
by both sides.
Instead what we have
is one party that says,
"Hey, that's bad," and a another
party that says, "So what?
Every president in history has
paid hush money to a porn star."
[ Laughter ]
And the BuzzFeed story
was actually a perfect dry run
for what will inevitably happen
if and when Mueller reveals
what really happened
between Trump and the Russians.
After the BuzzFeed story
was published
but before the special counsel
denied it,
Trump supporters
went on TV and radio
and offered up a series
of absurd reasons
why it was not a big deal.
-President Trump
does not e-mail or text.
He tweets, okay?
And he uses his phone.
So there's gonna be no physical
evidence for any of this.
-The first question has to be,
since when has Democrats started
caring about obstruction?
Because the biggest slam-dunk
case of obstruction of justice,
if we have equal justice and
equal application of our laws,
is Hillary Clinton's
subpoenaed e-mails.
-This is an absurdity.
I mean, can you imagine any
president of the United States
being dumb enough
to say to somebody,
"I'd like you to go over now
and lie to Congress"?
-Not only is Trump dumb enough
to lie to the country,
he's dumb enough to misspell
the word "country."
And look, everybody --
everybody makes typos,
but the president
should at least be able
to spell the thing
he's in charge of.
Can you imagine if Steve Jobs
had made the same mistake
when he launched Apple?
[ Laughter ]
So the short answer
to all of this is,
we don't know whether Trump
directed Michael Cohen
to lie to Congress about
the Trump Tower deal.
But we do know
that Trump himself
has lied repeatedly
to everybody.
And then this week, Trump's
current lawyer, Rudy Giuliani,
claimed it would have been
totally fine
for the president to talk
to his former lawyer
about what he was going to say
in his testimony to Congress.
-As far as I know,
President Trump did not
have discussions with him,
certainly had no discussions
with him
in which he told him
or counseled him to lie.
If he had any discussions
with him,
they'd be about the version
of the events
that Michael Cohen gave then,
which they all believe was true.
-But you just acknowledged
that it's possible
that President Trump
talked to Michael Cohen
about his testimony.
-Which would be
perfectly normal!
-No, it wouldn't!
Nothing this president does
is normal.
The guy couldn't figure out
how to close an umbrella,
and his first instinct
was to leave it outside.
[ Laughter and applause ]
And, Rudy, I've got to say --
If you keep messing up
like this, Rudy,
he might do the same to you.
[ Laughter ]
Rudy's comments over the weekend
raised more questions
than they answered.
So in an attempt to clean up
the mess he made,
he did an interview
with "The New Yorker,"
and somehow it got much worse
and much weirder.
Here's how "New Yorker"
staff writer Isaac Chotiner
described the start
of his conversation with Rudy.
"On Monday afternoon, I called
Giuliani to try to understand
what he was saying about
the Moscow negotiations.
After telling me
that he only had a minute
before getting into the shower,
he agreed to a conversation."
Why does he compulsively share
details no one wants to know?
It's like he can't help himself.
Every interview Rudy does
is like a call with
your grandfather in Florida.
"How are you, Grandpa?"
"Well, I'm getting a shot
tomorrow in my back
for sciatica, and the doctor
says I'm going to be sore
for a couple of days,
so I got to use Aspercreme.
But I got Preparation H
by accident,
so I got to go back
to the pharmacy,
even though the lady there
was mean to me."
"All right, you know what?
That's great, Grandpa.
I got to go."
Giuliani then insisted
he knew the BuzzFeed story
was false immediately,
and in the process,
he once again revealed something
he shouldn't have.
Here's the exchange.
"I can tell you from the moment
I read the story,
I knew the story was false."
"Because?"
"Because I have been through
all the tapes."
"Wait. What tapes
have you gone through?"
"I shouldn't have said tapes."
"So there were no tapes
you listened to, though?"
"No tapes.
Well, I have listened to tapes.
But none of them concern this."
Jesus!
Rudy is like that guy
you play poker with
who keeps turning his cards
around and going,
"Is this something?"
He just keeps rambling.
It doesn't matter
what you ask him.
We've been waiting all this time
for Mueller to tell us
what went down
when all we needed to do
was point a camera at Rudy
and ask him
what he had for dinner.
"I went to a Spanish restaurant
and had tapas,
but I thought the waiter said,
'Tapes.'
And then they said,
'No, it's tapas.'
I said, 'It sounds like
you're saying "tapes."'
And they said, 'Tapes?'
And I said, 'Yeah,
like the secret tapes
of Trump colluding
with the Russians.'
But they said, 'No, it's tapas,'
and I said,
'Hey, you look familiar.'"
[ Laughter and applause ]
The reason --
the very simple reason
their story keeps changing
is because they are lying.
Rudy might be the worst at it,
but he's not alone.
It's all out there for everyone
to see, including the president.
He must be watching all these
Rudy interviews and saying...
-Quiet, quiet, quiet.
-This has been "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]